---
toc: false
layout: post
description: This is the first post. Feel free to skip ;)
categories: [blog]
title: The Beginnings of Something?
comments: true
---

# Hi!

This is the first post on my blog. How exciting! At first, I wanted to start with some toy technical stuff, but in the end decided that something much more informal would be more appropriate (I think?). Also, I'm going to use this opportunity as the initial exploratory stage of my writing style for this blog. 

Anyway, let's move past that stuff and ask a question: "Why start a blog?". Honestly, if you think about it, there are quite a few reasons. First of all, I think it is useful after learning or doing something to try to explain it. This tests your understanding of the subject and allows you to fill any gaps you might have. Secondly, documenting what you're doing is a good way to share knowledge with others and allows them to notice you. Finally, I think writing and presenting are good skills to develop and are useful in many domains. 

There are other reasons to start a blog, but I think these are general enough to show the positives. After writing all of them down, other questions pop up in my mind: "Why haven't I started earlier?" or "Why more people are not doing this?". I think the answer is pretty simple. It's actually pretty difficult to do. Not only you need to do things, which you can document, you also need to write[^1] something! And since it's a separate skill set, you might not be inclined to do additional work. Well, at least I think it's true for me.

Despite all of this, here I am writing the first post. I'm still not sure what I'm going to be putting here. I think it will be a combination of my notes on the stuff I've learned or tried to figure out, and development notes on some projects. For example, the next post is going to be about me figuring out how to make a 3-layer neural network in plain NumPy. Well, there's definitely still time and I think I'll figure out what to write about. One of the harder things is done, I have started doing this. It's "smooth" sailing from here on out.


## Footnotes

[^1]: You also need to set up a website and decide on things like [logo](https://slate.com/technology/2020/05/this-slack-smiley-face-yikes.html)

